Originally planet omicron 436 when first discovered via a space based telescope, and was classified as a 5th class demi-habitable planet.

Planetary terraforming company [[Diogenes Tech]] was the first to send a survey team as part of the Human Habitability Initiative (HHI). After conducting low orbit scans planet omicron 436 was progressed to a 3rd class demi-habitable planet. The unfortunate crew at that time dubbed it Terra Suert or in English 'lucky ground'.

At that time Terra Suert was thought to contain microbial life and per company regulations they sent probes to the surface to test surface conditions as well as test for life microbial or otherwise. While the probes worked well on the surface none of them were able to return to low orbit for on ship sampling leaving inconclusive readings. As such the crews excitement overcame them and they sent a deep space data burst (DSDB) to [[Diogenes tech]] headquarters informing them of the current situation.

By the next day the crew had prepped for a landing party sending 4 crew members among them a Mr. Rodriguez Pellier. Mr. Rodriguez was the only crew member combat trained and was brought along in the landing party merely as a precaution. The presence of bacteria was quickly discovered on the planet. The bacteria was very weak and barely had any waste or energy needed to survive. Using [[replicant body technology (RBT)]] the landing team assessed the bacteria's affect on human physiology and determined it to be extremely low impact on virtual any human.

The bacteria was of such a low impact it would only cause problems when directly injected into the liver or kidneys. As such the crew began surveys planet side with minimal protective measures. After three weeks a sufficient number of samples were and data was logged and the landing party prepared to enter low orbit and redock with the survey ship. On route to the survey ship the crew began to feel unwell and their vital signs indicated severe poisoning throughout their entire bodies.

The bacteria present on the planets surface was dying and releasing toxins directly into the body; the reason for the bacteria's sudden death lay in planet's magnetic and electrical fields. The vast majority of energy required for the bacteria's survival came directly from these fields and when pulled into low orbit the bacteria quickly die releasing complex biological compounds that are normally never released even when bacteria dies elsewhere. By the time the crew knew they were in danger it was already too late. Everyone on the landing crewed died minutes before docking with the survey ship.

After examination of the bodies, the survey crew determined the cause of death and put the bodies into cryostasis carefully noting the build up of crystalline compounds within their bodies. After the loss of the landing crew it was determined that returning to [[Diogenes Tech]] headquarters for re-equipping would be best. And as such prepared for FTL (faster than light) travel to headquarters.

Unbeknownst to the crew the crystalline compound forming inside the deceased crew was [[glass]] and it was mimicking Mr. Rodriguez nerve centers turning him into the first **Zombie**. Rodriguez's body now unaffected by cryostasis broke containment and proceeded to massacre every other crew member none of which were combat trained.

When the survey ship arrived at Diogenes Headquarters and found derelict a containment team was dispatched to clear the ship of any potential hostiles and contaminants. After an intense albeit brief firefight Rodriguez's body was destroyed, after reviewing data logs the planet was relabeled a class 9 demi habitable planet and blacklisted from any terraforming development. The planet was dubbed "Krall". At the time Krall was a newly coined word for a disastrous development usually referenced in relation to botched costume designs.

While unusual not too much thought was given to planet Krall until corporate executive Darren Kaisenlen took interest in the matter. To quote Darren on why he took interest in the matter "Space zombies have always been a big fascination for me; I really wanted it on my wall. But like in a way that wouldn't kill me. Who wouldn't dedicate nearly a billion credits to such an endeavor." Not expecting any major returns and as talentless (?) corporate executive Darren Kaisenlen accidently created the optimal research atmosphere.

Within two years the mysterious substance had been researched and was dubbed "Shard". The researchers concluded the substance would completely alter the way computing was done and reshape many modern technologies; they didn't know how greatly they had underestimated the substance which has restructured virtually every industry as the most valuable substance known to man.

Darren Kaisenlen had forgotten of the research by the time he received the report and for probably the first time in his life experienced neuron activation. He realized that he could stimulate the production of [[Glass]] before releasing the research to the public by designating planet Krall as a prison planet. Krall because of the bacteria and the magnetic field that keeps them alive would be virtually inescapable for anyone who stepped foot on the planet.

Abusing his influence as an executive he pulled some strings behind the scenes and had Krall designated as a prison planet and personally fronted large sums of money for transportation and minimal terraforming of the planet. At the same time he secretly funded low orbit research and processing satellites. Everything was set up for the emergence of [[glass]] on the interplanetary market.

To Darren's surprise and joy the planet's energy field is rather inconsistent creating fluctuating dead zones which lead to waves of zombies on the planet. Thus the prisoner population became predominantly nomadic avoiding dead zones as they cropped up. Within 15 years there was already a sizeable amount of the valuable mineral on the planet. It has only grown since then.

Mining the crystal is always a suicide mission as the bacteria is very difficult to completely remove from one's body without killing them. At first it was unclear how extraction would occur until Veronika Markov, a rising strategist for [[Diogenes tech]], decided to use [[replicant body technology (RBT)]] to create drop teams to harvest the resource and send it back in specialized mineral transit pods (MTP).

In essence RBT creates a temporary clone and sends it planet side to extract [[glass]] before having the clone die on the planet; in the process creating even more of the precious crystal to later harvest. These miners later became known as **Insert cool nickname**.

The industry despite being quite literally built on dead bodies has continued without any hiccups and is one of the largest grossing interplanetary industries. Following its fame the planet was redubbed *the Krall Shard* and has had a large number of films, games, documentaries, and cultural iconography inspired by it.